# Define a class for HTML Parsing

This code defines a class that will parse HTML and extract hyperlinks.

```python
class HyperlinkParser(HTMLParser):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()
        self.hyperlinks = [] # Initialises an empty list to store URLs of hyperlinks

    def handle_starttag(self, tag, attrs): 
        attrs = dict(attrs)
        if tag == "a" and "href" in attrs:
            self.hyperlinks.append(attrs["href"])
```

The `def handle_starttag()` method gets called whenever the parser encounters the start of a tag in the HTML content. It receives two arguments:
- `tag` - Is the name of the tag the parser has encountered.
- `attrs` -  A list of `(attribute, value)` pairs containing the attributes found inside the tag's opening bracket.

The method converts `attrs` into a dictionary for easier access. If the current tag is an `<a>` tag (which denotes a hyperlink) and it has an `href` attribute (the attribute that specifies the URL the link points to), the URL (value of the `href` attribute) is appended to the `self.hyperlinks` list. This effectively collects all URLs pointed to by hyperlinks in the parsed HTML content.

#### How it works
When an instance of `HyperlinkParser` is used to parse HTML content, the parser systematically goes through the content and triggers the `handle_starttag` method for each starting tag it encounters. For every `<a>` tag with an `href` attribute, the URL specified in the `href` is stored in the `self.hyperlinks` list. After the parsing is complete, `self.hyperlinks` will contain all the extracted URLs, making it possible to process or analyze the hyperlinks further, such as filtering them based on certain criteria or using them to crawl linked pages.

### [Click to continue...](./preprocess.py-documentation/2.%20Extract%20and%20return%20all%20hyperlinks.md)

### [Go back to overview](/detailed-overview/3.%20Detailed%20overview.md)