# Conditional statement

This final section of the code is a conditional statement used to check if the script is being executed as the main program and not being imported as a module in another script. Here's an explanation of its components and purpose:

```python
if __name__ == '__main__':
    app.run(debug=False)
```

- `__name__ == '__main__'`: This is a special condition in Python that evaluates to `True` if the script is run directly (e.g., `python script.py` from the command line). When a Python script is executed, Python sets the `__name__` variable to '`__main__`' in the script's global namespace. However, if the script is being imported into another script as a module, `__name__ `is set to the script's/module's name, and this condition evaluates to `False`.
- `app.run(debug=False)`: This line starts the Flask application.
    - `app` is the Flask application instance created earlier in the script.
    - The `run` method is called to start the Flask integrated development server, making the application listen for incoming requests on a default port (usually `5000`) on the localhost (`127.0.0.1`).
    - The `debug` parameter is set to `False`, indicating that the application should not run in debug mode. When `debug` is `True`, Flask provides a more verbose output on the console and automatically reloads the server upon code changes, which is useful during development.

**Purpose**
This setup is common in Flask applications to allow the same script to be versatile: it can be run as a standalone server (useful during development and testing) or imported as a module in a larger application or framework (e.g., when deploying with a WSGI server like Gunicorn).

**Summary**
This section marks the entry point of the Flask application, ensuring it only runs when the script is executed directly. It's a common pattern used in Python scripts to provide flexibility in how scripts are used and deployed.

### [Back to overview](/detailed-overview/3.%20Detailed%20overview.md)